docs/SESSION_EXECUTION.md, before:

# Session Execution Architecture

This document explains how the container session executes commands reliably while preserving shell state and separating stdout/stderr.

## Goals

- Preserve session state across commands (cwd, env vars, shell functions)
- Cleanly separate stdout and stderr for each command
- Be robust to commands that produce no output (e.g., `cd`, `mkdir`, variable assignment)
- Provide deterministic completion signaling (exit code file) without hanging

## Two Execution Modes

### Foreground (`exec`)

- Runs in the main bash shell so state persists across commands.
- Writes stdout/stderr to temporary files, then prefixes and merges them into the log.
- Bash waits for file redirects to complete before continuing, ensuring the log is fully written before the exit code is published.
- This avoids race conditions from process substitution buffering where log reads could happen before writes complete.

Pseudo:

```
# Foreground
{ command; } > "$log.stdout" 2> "$log.stderr"
EXIT_CODE=$?
# Prefix and merge into main log
(while read line; do printf "\x01\x01\x01%s\n" "$line"; done < "$log.stdout") >> "$log"
(while read line; do printf "\x02\x02\x02%s\n" "$line"; done < "$log.stderr") >> "$log"
rm -f "$log.stdout" "$log.stderr"
# Atomically publish exit code
echo "$EXIT_CODE" > "$exit.tmp" && mv "$exit.tmp" "$exit"
```

### Background (`execStream` / `startProcess`)

- Uses named FIFOs and background labelers:
  - Create two FIFOs (stdout/stderr)
  - Start two background readers (labelers) that read each FIFO and prepend a binary prefix per line, appending to the log
  - Run the command in a subshell redirected to the FIFOs
  - Write the exit code file and clean up FIFOs after readers finish
- This pattern works well for concurrent streaming and avoids blocking the main shell.

Pseudo:

```
mkfifo "$sp" "$ep"
( while read; printf "\x01\x01\x01%s\n" "$REPLY"; done < "$sp" ) >> "$log" & r1=$!
( while read; printf "\x02\x02\x02%s\n" "$REPLY"; done < "$ep" ) >> "$log" & r2=$!
{
  command
  CMD_EXIT=$?
  echo "$CMD_EXIT" > "$exit.tmp" && mv "$exit.tmp" "$exit"
} > "$sp" 2> "$ep" & CMD_PID=$!
# Monitor waits for readers to finish and then removes FIFOs
( wait "$r1" "$r2" 2>/dev/null; rm -f "$sp" "$ep" ) &
```

## Binary Prefix Contract

- We use short binary prefixes per line to distinguish streams:
  - Stdout lines: `\x01\x01\x01`
  - Stderr lines: `\x02\x02\x02`
- The log parser splits the log by these prefixes to reconstruct stdout/stderr.
- Unprefixed lines (should not occur) are ignored.

## Completion Signaling

- For each command we write an exit code file: `<id>.exit` with the numeric exit code.
- The container waits for this file using a hybrid `fs.watch` + polling approach to be robust on tmpfs/overlayfs where rename events may be missed.
- Exit file writes are performed via `tmp` + `mv` for atomicity.

## Error Handling and Limits

- Invalid `cwd` (foreground): we write a prefixed stderr line (binary prefix) indicating the failure and return exit code `1`.
- Timeouts: foreground commands can be configured to time out; an error is raised if the exit file does not appear in time.

## Why Two Patterns?

- Foreground requires state persistence in the main shell. Process substitution provides reliable separation without cross-process FIFO races.
- Background requires concurrent streaming and process tracking (PID etc.), which is well-served by FIFOs + labelers without blocking the main shell.

## Testing Notes

- Foreground tests cover silent commands (`cd`, variable assignment), error scenarios, and multiline output.
- Background/streaming tests cover concurrent output, stderr separation, and completion events.
- The previous hang class was caused by FIFO open/close races in foreground on silent commands; process substitution removes this class entirely.

## FAQ

- Why not unify on a single mechanism?
  - Foreground needs state persistence and deterministic completion without cross-process scheduling hazards; process substitution is ideal.
  - Background needs streaming and concurrency; FIFOs provide clean decoupling.
- Why not tee? Tee doesn’t split stdout/stderr into separate channels with stable ordering without extra plumbing; our prefixes are simple and explicit.
- Is process substitution portable?
  - It is supported by bash (we spawn bash with `--norc`). The container environment supports it; if portability constraints change, we can revisit.
- Why use temp files instead of process substitution for foreground?
  Process substitutions run asynchronously - bash returns when the substitution processes close, but their writes to the log file may still be buffered. With large output (e.g., base64-encoded files), the log file can be incomplete when we try to read it. Using direct file redirects ensures bash waits for all writes to complete before continuing, eliminating this race condition.

Commit message:

Update session execution docs and fix stale code comment
Update SESSION_EXECUTION.md to document the labelers.done marker file
mechanism that ensures log output is fully captured before completion.

Fix stale header comment in session.ts that incorrectly referenced
process substitution - the implementation uses temp files for foreground
execution.

docs/SESSION_EXECUTION.md, after:

# Session Execution Architecture

This document explains how the container session executes commands reliably while preserving shell state and separating stdout/stderr.

## Goals

- Preserve session state across commands (cwd, env vars, shell functions)
- Cleanly separate stdout and stderr for each command
- Be robust to commands that produce no output (e.g., `cd`, `mkdir`, variable assignment)
- Provide deterministic completion signaling (exit code file) without hanging

## Two Execution Modes

### Foreground (`exec`)

- Runs in the main bash shell so state persists across commands.
- Writes stdout/stderr to temporary files, then prefixes and merges them into the log.
- Bash waits for file redirects to complete before continuing, ensuring the log is fully written before the exit code is published.
- This avoids race conditions from process substitution buffering where log reads could happen before writes complete.

Pseudo:

```
# Foreground
{ command; } > "$log.stdout" 2> "$log.stderr"
EXIT_CODE=$?
# Prefix and merge into main log
(while read line; do printf "\x01\x01\x01%s\n" "$line"; done < "$log.stdout") >> "$log"
(while read line; do printf "\x02\x02\x02%s\n" "$line"; done < "$log.stderr") >> "$log"
rm -f "$log.stdout" "$log.stderr"
# Atomically publish exit code
echo "$EXIT_CODE" > "$exit.tmp" && mv "$exit.tmp" "$exit"
```

### Background (`execStream` / `startProcess`)

- Uses named FIFOs and background labelers:
  - Create two FIFOs (stdout/stderr)
  - Start two background readers (labelers) that read each FIFO and prepend a binary prefix per line, appending to the log
  - Run the command in a subshell redirected to the FIFOs
  - Write the exit code file after command completes
  - A background monitor waits for labelers to finish, removes FIFOs, and creates a `labelers.done` marker file
  - The reader waits for this marker before reading final output, ensuring all log content is captured
- This pattern works well for concurrent streaming and avoids blocking the main shell.

Pseudo:

```
mkfifo "$sp" "$ep"
( while read; printf "\x01\x01\x01%s\n" "$REPLY"; done < "$sp" ) >> "$log" & r1=$!
( while read; printf "\x02\x02\x02%s\n" "$REPLY"; done < "$ep" ) >> "$log" & r2=$!
{
  command
  CMD_EXIT=$?
  echo "$CMD_EXIT" > "$exit.tmp" && mv "$exit.tmp" "$exit"
} > "$sp" 2> "$ep" & CMD_PID=$!
# Monitor waits for labelers to finish, removes FIFOs, signals completion
( wait "$r1" "$r2" 2>/dev/null; rm -f "$sp" "$ep"; touch "$labelers_done" ) &
```

## Binary Prefix Contract

- We use short binary prefixes per line to distinguish streams:
  - Stdout lines: `\x01\x01\x01`
  - Stderr lines: `\x02\x02\x02`
- The log parser splits the log by these prefixes to reconstruct stdout/stderr.
- Unprefixed lines (should not occur) are ignored.

## Completion Signaling

- For each command we write an exit code file: `<id>.exit` with the numeric exit code.
- The container waits for this file using a hybrid `fs.watch` + polling approach to be robust on tmpfs/overlayfs where rename events may be missed.
- Exit file writes are performed via `tmp` + `mv` for atomicity.

## Error Handling and Limits

- Invalid `cwd` (foreground): we write a prefixed stderr line (binary prefix) indicating the failure and return exit code `1`.
- Timeouts: foreground commands can be configured to time out; an error is raised if the exit file does not appear in time.

## Why Two Patterns?

- Foreground requires state persistence in the main shell. Process substitution provides reliable separation without cross-process FIFO races.
- Background requires concurrent streaming and process tracking (PID etc.), which is well-served by FIFOs + labelers without blocking the main shell.

## Testing Notes

- Foreground tests cover silent commands (`cd`, variable assignment), error scenarios, and multiline output.
- Background/streaming tests cover concurrent output, stderr separation, and completion events.
- The previous hang class was caused by FIFO open/close races in foreground on silent commands; process substitution removes this class entirely.

## FAQ

- Why not unify on a single mechanism?
  - Foreground needs state persistence and deterministic completion without cross-process scheduling hazards; process substitution is ideal.
  - Background needs streaming and concurrency; FIFOs provide clean decoupling.
- Why not tee? Tee doesn’t split stdout/stderr into separate channels with stable ordering without extra plumbing; our prefixes are simple and explicit.
- Is process substitution portable?
  - It is supported by bash (we spawn bash with `--norc`). The container environment supports it; if portability constraints change, we can revisit.
- Why use temp files instead of process substitution for foreground?
  Process substitutions run asynchronously - bash returns when the substitution processes close, but their writes to the log file may still be buffered. With large output (e.g., base64-encoded files), the log file can be incomplete when we try to read it. Using direct file redirects ensures bash waits for all writes to complete before continuing, eliminating this race condition.
